So this part is gonna be on error handling
and testing, which I think is very
important if you're gonna be
an advanced GraphQL server developer.
You need to know how handle errors.
So we've talked about it, we've thrown
errors in here, we've done so many things.
And if you've ever worked
on a server before,
especially know that if you throw
an error, the server breaks.
But if you notice, we've been throwing
errors like crazy and nothing's broken.
It continues to work just fine.
So something's happening, and
we didn't do anything about it.
So I'm going to explain to you
what's actually happening.
But basically throw your errors,
they will be caught.
And that's because GraphQL and
not Apollo, but the actual GraphQL spec
inside the resolvers and as the framework
is or the GraphQL is initializing
in the context of GraphQL, any error
that is thrown is automatically caught.
And that error is gonna be
sent down through the query.
So you're still gonna get back,
most likely at 200 unless you change it.
And instead of getting back a data
property, you're gonna get back an error's
property, which can be an array of
errors that have everything on it from
the message of the error all the way
down to the stack trace by default.
And that's what GraphQL's got to do.
So to demonstrate that,
what we can do is let me stop this thing.
And I'm gonna go to this
example one that I have here,
let's just make a new field on a user.
And we'll just call it error.
And it's just gonna return,
it's supposed to return a string.
Let's see that.
But instead, what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna go to a user, oops.
And I'm gonna make a resolver for
that error field and
I was gonna throw an error.
Like that, so I'll start this up,
node server, like that.
And then I'll try to go
get a user error field.
So, if I say give me, and
then give me the error field like this,
you can see I get back this
errors array and data is null.
So if it wasn't an error, data would
be the objects and some stuff and
errors would probably be null.
So let's inspect this and
figure out what's going on.
So errors has a couple things.
One, it's an array.
So that tells you you might
have many errors happening.
And it really depends on your
implementation and what you wanna do.
But this is where it's got to go,
and this is GraphQL spec,
this is not something that Apollo's doing.
By default,
you're gonna get something like a message.
So that's probably, and
if you're ever using error in JavaScript,
all errors have a message, it's usually
whatever you type into the constructor.
Like I typed in no, so message showed up.
Locations are exactly
what they sound like.
The line numbers and
the columns that those error's
happening according to that resolver.
The path is the path to the resolver.
So you can see,
I issued a query on the me field and
then that returned a user type and
then I got the error field from there.
So it's showing me the path
to where the error happened.
And this extensions thing is something
that frameworks like Apollo and
I think GraphQL does a lot of
this stuff by default too.
It takes advantage of to allow you
more metadata on the error itself.
So right now by default,
we're getting an error code right
now saying internal server error.
And then we get an exception which
has an array of stack traces.
So it can be pretty detailed.
Now you might be asking yourself,
you don't want to show
the stack trace to your client.
This is kind of crazy.
I don't know about that.
No worries,
if you put your app in production mode,
Apollo gets rid of the stack trace for
you, so you don't have to do it.
Even then,
you can also modify it yourself with a
method that I'm gonna show you how to do.
But this is a perfect place for
you to basically, instead
of looking at status quos to figure
out what's going over your server.
Instead, you will look at these
extensions and look at the codes.
You will have deterministic codes
that happened depending on what
error happened on your server, and
your client can respond to those codes.
You can also put other extensions in
here like a message to show in the UI.
So maybe the server even
comes up that message.
So the client doesn't to figure out like,
what do I need to tell the user
when this error happens?
So the server can tell you this is
what you need to tell the user.
So you don't have to do anything.
The whole purpose is to offload
all that stuff to the server and
have GraphQL take care of it.
So the client can just take it and
render it on the page.
You shouldn't have to do
anything on the client side.
Although you can if you want to, but you
have the ability to handle it all here.
So again, that's any error that you
throw or any error that is not caught.
Any exception that's thrown is
gonna be automatically caught and
it's gonna show up here.
And your server is gonna keep running.
It's gonna keep running.
So that may be a little different.
Cuz I know a lot of work goes into keeping
your server running when you have errors,
especially with node.
Well now, it's just gonna run unless
it breaks completely outside of
GraphQL in a middleware somewhere or
something like that database connection.
It's always gonna keep going as
far as errors are concerned.